---
layout: post
title: Exploring the brain
subtitle: Biswadeep Khan, PhD Researcher at The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology and Co-Founder & Vice President (Search Engine and Data Science) at Bornbhukkad
tags: [Computational Biology]
image: assets/images/biswadeep-talk.png
---

# AAII Technical Lecture Series (ATLS-9)
**Title:** Exploring the Brain


#### Abstract
Have you ever wondered how the human brain works? How are researchers developing computational models to decode brain circuitry? How does ML/DL/VR playing a major role in interpreting the brain? What is computational neuroscience? To answer all these questions, in this version of the *AAII Technical Lecture Series*, we invited *Biswadeep Khan, Ph.D. Researcher at The Hong Kong University of Science* as our esteemed speaker.


This talk covers the basics and some interesting areas of active research in neuroscience. Biswadeep also discussed in detail the use of computational methods and mathematics domain knowledge for the application of machine learning techniques and virtual reality in neuroscience research.

#### Speaker
Biswadeep Khan is currently a Ph.D. Researcher in Bioengineering at The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology; where he is working on "Understanding the prey capture hunting circuitry in larval zebrafish". He did his MTech in Computational Biology from IIIT, New Delhi, India. His research interest includes designing algorithms, understanding the brain, image processing, as well as developing computational models to decode the brain circuitry (Computational neuroscience). Biswadeep is also a Co-Founder & Vice President of Search Engine and Data Science at Bornbhukkad, a super app with four innovative engines with a goal of quick, right order, and value for money consumers, and higher sales for restaurants.

#### Contact: 
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/biswadeep-khan-442ba340/)
- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Cr931_kAAAAJ&hl=en)

```
Speaker: Biswadeep Khan, PhD Researcher at The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology and Co-Founder & Vice President (Search Engine and Data Science) at Bornbhukkad
Topic: Exploring the brain
Date: 22 August 2021
Time: 3 PM (IST)
```

<iframe width="800" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lo2bHPYJapg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
