---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Hardware and Software Infrastructure for Large Scale Computing with an excursion to Google's Carbon Intelligent Computing Platform
subtitle: Dr. Saurav Talukdar, Control system engineer, Google, USA
tags: [Introduction to Hardware and Software Infrastructure for Large Scale Computing with an excursion to Google's Carbon Intelligent Computing Platform]
image: assets/images/saurav-talk.png
---

# AAII Technical Lecture Series (ATLS-8)

**Title:** Introduction to Hardware and Software Infrastructure for Large Scale Computing with an excursion to Google's Carbon Intelligent Computing Platform

#### Abstract
Have you ever wondered how google data centres work? What are the physical infrastructures required to enable day-to-day Google services we use? How are Google engineers trying to minimize Carbon emission in their data centers? To answer all these questions, in the this version of the AAII Technical Lecture Series (ATLS – 8), we invited Dr. Saurav Talukdar from Google, USA.

In this talk, first, the physical infrastructure required to enable the day-to-day Google services we use are discussed. This  involves a description of the servers, power, and cooling aspects of Google data centers. Then, Saurav briefly mentioned about thee software stack, which manages the computing resources across the globe. Finally, gave some idea how to operate the data centers in a manner that is aware of the carbon footprint of computing.

Related links:
- [Presentation slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/127QV3rPRhTsh-fJW44g2mfCRdlwCcV9ReNOJ_sdcwXo/edit#slide=id.p) 

#### Speaker
Dr. Saurav is currently working as a Control system engineer at Google, USA, where he is working towards improving the efficiency of Google Data Centers. Before joining Google, he did his Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota, USA. Dr. Saurav is an alumnus of IIT Bombay, where he pursued his Btech and MTech in Mechanical Engineering. His research interest includes optimization-based control, statistical modeling of data center power utilization, and Carbon-Aware computing for data centers.

Contact: 
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/saurav-talukdar-b727a21b/)
- [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.co.in/citations?user=LjbbUMUAAAAJ&hl=en)

```
Speaker: Dr. Saurav Talukdar, Control system engineer, Google, USA
Topic: Introduction to Hardware and Software Infrastructure for Large Scale Computing with an excursion to Google's Carbon Intelligent Computing Platform
Date: 8 August 2021
Time: 7:30 PM (IST)
```
<iframe width="800" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/s-flHRDVVj4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
