---
layout: post
title: Building AI Powered Products - A Silicon Valley Journey
subtitle: Bhaskar Deka, Sr. Vice President - Global Head of Product Management & AI, EdCast, Palo Alto, California, United State
tags: 
image: assets/images/bhaskardeka.jpeg
---

# AAII Technical Lecture Series (ATLS-11) on 26-02-2022
Title: Building AI Powered Products - A Silicon Valley Journey


#### Abstract:
In this session, Bhaskar will talk about how AI and machine learning have gone mainstream – from consumer internet to big enterprises. He will talk about the trends in supervised/unsupervised learning as well as reinforcement learning. Bhaskar will draw upon his decades of building AI and analytics-powered products in Silicon Valley to talk about how AI and machine learning is disrupting diverse fields – from self-driving cars to innovation in corporate learning. As an entrepreneur/product manager, how do you leverage these trends to build world-class products? As a machine learning engineer/data scientist, how do you prepare yourself for the unprecedented demand in this field?


#### Speaker
Bhaskar Deka is currently Senior Vice President and global head of products and AI at EdCast, a pioneering Silicon Valley start-up funded by top-tier VC firms like Soft Bank and Melno Ventures. In his 25+ years career, Bhaskar has successfully built billion-dollar software product lines both in public companies (e.g., Oracle, Informatica) as well as start-ups with successful exits (e.g., Xtime/Cox). Prior to EdCast, he was the Senior Vice President and founding Head of Product Management and Data Science at Skupos, a retail analytics leader backed by Insight Partners. He is also an advisor to multiple start-ups in the AI/Machine Learning space. Originally from. Guwahati, Bhaskar holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering from Birla Institute of Technology, a Master’s degree in Computer Engineering (specialization AI & Expert Systems) from Boston University, and an MBA from Kellogg School of Management. He lives in Palo Alto, CA, with his wife, two kids, and a Havanese puppy. Bhaskar enjoys tennis, biking, and strumming on acoustic guitar in his free time.

- [Linkedin profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/bhaskar-deka-62a4171/)
- [EdCast profile](https://tw.edcast.com/corp/edcast-leadership/bhaskar-deka/)


```
Title: Building AI Powered Products - A Silicon Valley Journey
Speaker name: Bhaskar Deka, Sr. Vice President - Global Head of Product Management & AI, EdCast, Palo Alto, California, United State
Date: 26 February (Saturday) 2022 
Time: 10:00 AM (IST)

```

<iframe width="800" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/y7FSmWasQrw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
