---
layout: post
title: AAII Technical Lecture Series (ATLS-15)
subtitle: Dr. Santonu Goswami, Associate professor, Azim Premji University, Bengaluru, and Founder, Climate Community Lab
tags: 
image: assets/images/Santonu-sir.jpeg
---

# AAII Technical Lecture Series (ATLS-15)
**Title:** Data science in climate change research


### Abstract:
Climate change is considered as one of the most pressing problems of current times. The impact of climate change on local, regional and global climates and the cascading effects it creates across the biosphere, atmosphere, and hydrosphere cause a serious threat to the overall existence of human society. The climate change problem is so complex, due to the intertwined relationships of various elements of the Earth system, that it takes large interdisciplinary teams to develop effective solutions for adaptation and mitigation measures at the local to the regional level. While the climate change problem is quite complex and hard to tackle, the emergence of data especially data as a service and artificial intelligence provides a unique opportunity. The huge volumes of climate and environmental data provided for free by various organizations from around the world provide scopes for building data-driven solutions for a range of climate and environmental problems at local, regional to the global scale. The talk will introduce the audience to data-intensive climate and environmental research by drawing examples from various data-driven case studies. 


#### Speaker
Dr. Santonu Goswami is working as an Associate professor at the Centre for Climate Change and Sustainability, Azim Premji University (APU), Bengaluru. He received his Ph.D. degree from The University of Texas at El Paso. Before joining APU, he spent five and a half years as a Senior Scientist at NRSC-ISRO, focusing on studying key ecosystems in Indian e.g. coastal, riverine and Himalayan mountain ecosystems using data modeling of various time-series Geospatial and Climate datasets using open-source analytics tools. Prior to his work in India, he worked as a Research Scientist at the Centre for Urban Science and Progress in NY, USA. One of his earlier assignments as a Postdoctoral Research Scientist at the US Dept. of Energy Laboratory at ORNL focused on data-model integration to understand climate change impacts on Arctic Ecosystems. He started an open-source community called Community Climate Lab (www.cclindia.org), coordinating with a team of undergraduate researchers to work on various environmental and climate change problems using advanced statistical approaches (AI/ML) and open-source programming.

Contact: 
- [Linkedin profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/santonugoswami/)
- [Climate Community Lab](www.cclindia.org)




```
Title: Data science in climate change research
Speaker name:  Dr. Santonu Goswami, Associate professor, Azim Premji University, Bengaluru, and Founder, Climate Community Labs, Bangalore
Date: 27 March 2022
Time: 6 PM (IST)

```

<iframe width="720" height="415" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z9kORw_BJWQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
