---
layout: post
title: The New Knowledge Economy In The Age of AI
subtitle: Ruban Phukan, Co-Founder & CEO at GoodGist.com, Ex Yahoo, Previously co-founded DataRPM, Bixee 
tags: 
image: assets/images/ruban.jpeg
start_date: "2023-12-02"
start_time: "11:00"
youtube: "https://youtube.com/live/BCxkl7BjeQo"
---

<br>
### Talk details
**Title:** The New Knowledge Economy In The Age of AI <br/>
**Speaker:**  Ruban Phukan, Co-Founder & CEO at GoodGist.com, Ex Yahoo, Previously co-founded DataRPM, Bixee 
<br/>
**Date:** 2nd December 2023<br/>
**Time:** 11:00 AM (IST)

### Abstract: 
>In the age of artificial intelligence, we stand at the cusp of a paradigm shift in how knowledge is consumed, processed, and leveraged for competitive advantage. The emerging knowledge economy, turbocharged by AI co-pilots, is not only enhancing efficiency but also transforming the very fabric of intellectual exploration and productivity. This talk will explore the dynamics of this new landscape, where AI-driven tools offer personalized, on-demand knowledge in digestible bites, and how these advancements are sculpting a future where learning is continuous, adaptive, and seamlessly integrated into our daily tasks.

### Speaker's bio
Ruban Phukan is a techpreneur with over two decades experience in the field of AI, Machine Learning and Data Science. He has co-founded Bixee, India's first vertical search engine platform, that was acquired by ibibo and eventually became the technology base that started goibibo. He also co-founded DataRPM, a pioneer in Enterprise AI for IoT, which was acquired by Progress Software.  Currently, Ruban is the co-founder and CEO of GoodGist Inc. Their product, GoodGist.com, offers knowledge discovery and learning co-pilot for professionals and enterprises.  

### Contact: 
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ruban/)

<iframe width="100%" height="515" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BCxkl7BjeQo?si=Eiod_uLuBrK5xg7C" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>