---
layout: post
title: Challenges in processing natural signals like speech
subtitle: Prof. B. Yegnanarayana, IIIT Hyderabad, India
image: assets/images/yegnanarayana.jpg
start_date: "2025-08-03"
start_time: "19:00"
youtube: "https://www.youtube.com/live/PitSM82mTqQ"
---

<br>
### Talk details
**Title:** Challenges in processing natural signals like speech <br/>
**Speaker:** Prof. B. Yegnanarayana, IIIT Hyderabad, India
<br/>
**Date:** 3rd August 2025<br/>
**Time:** 7:00 PM (IST)

### Abstract: 
>In this talk the significance of naturalness, especially in communication through speech mode, will be discussed. In particular, the challenges in processing natural signals like speech will be highlighted in the context of current AI-related technological developments. A background to speech processing will be given to appreciate the limitations of signal processing methods for dealing with natural signals.

## Speaker's bio
Bayya Yegnanarayana is currently Emeritus Professor and INSA Honorary Scientist at the International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H). He was Professor Emeritus at BITS-Pilani Hyderabad Campus during 2016. He was an Institute Professor from 2012 to 2016 and Professor & Microsoft Chair from 2006 to 2012 at IIIT-H. He was a Professor (1980 to 2006) and Head of the CSE Dept (1985 to 1989) at IIT Madras, a visiting Associate Professor at Carnegie-Mellon University (CMU), Pittsburgh, USA (1977 to 1980), and a member of the faculty at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bangalore (1966 to 1978). He received BSc from Andhra University Visakhapatnam in 1961, and BE, ME and PhD from IISc Bangalore in 1964, 1966, and 1974, respectively. His research interests are in signal processing, speech, image processing and neural networks. He has published over 420 papers in these areas. He is the author of the book "Artificial Neural Networks", published by Prentice-Hall of India in 1999. He has supervised 39 PhD and 42 MS theses at IISc, IITM and IIIT-H. He is a Fellow of the Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE), a Fellow of the Indian National Science Academy (INSA), a Fellow of the Indian Academy of Sciences (IASc), a Fellow of the IEEE (USA) and a Fellow of the International Speech Communications Association (ISCA). He was the recipient of the 3rd IETE Prof. S.V.C.Aiya Memorial Award in 1996. He received the Prof. S.N.Mitra Memorial Award for the year 2006 from INAE. He was awarded the 2013 Distinguished Alumnus Award from IISc Bangalore. He was awarded "The Sayed Husain Zaheer Medal (2014)" of INSA. He received Prof. Rais Ahmed Memorial Lecture Award from the Acoustical Society of India in 2016. He was awarded Life Fellow of IIT Kharagpur in 2022. He was an Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing during 2003-2006. He is currently an Associate Editor for the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America. He received Doctor of Science (Honoris Causa) from Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Anantapur in February 2019. He was the General Chair for Interspeech2018 held in Hyderabad, India, during September 2018.  He was a visiting Professor at IIT Dharwad and at CMU Africa in Rwanda during 2019. Currently, he is a Distinguished Professor at IIT Hyderabad and an Adjunct Faculty at IIT Tirupati.


### Contact: 
- [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayya_Yegnanarayana)
- [Website](http://speech.iiit.ac.in/index.php?option=com_jresearch&view=member&task=show&id=1&Itemid=59)

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PitSM82mTqQ?si=_hNHkcBGiX3idaC9" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>